BibViz Project
==============
A project to visualize negative aspects of the Bible in a way that is not only visually appealing but that makes exploring those aspects of the book quick and intuitive. The main focus of the project is Bible contradictions, but it also highlights scientific and historical inaccuracies, cruelty & violence, misogyny, and homophobia.

Data for the website is generated from various sources, including the Skeptic's Annotated Bible, Infidels.org, EvilBible.com, etc. See the `scripts` directory for how each piece was generated. Note that some information is managed by hand as not everything can be generated from the source pages.

The `web` directory contains everything required for the website, which is generated by a static site generator called [Wintersmith](http://wintersmith.io/). Several modifications/plugins are used, which can be found in the `web/plugins` directory.

This project makes use of Node.js, Javascript, Coffeescript, Cheerio (a jQuery-like library), Needle, Async.js, D3.js, Wintersmith, HTML, Stylus, and Nunjucks templates.

Contribution Ideas
------------------
The following is a non-exhaustive list of possible contribution ideas. Feel free to fork and choose one:

 * [Translations](http://bibviz.com/translate.html)
 * New data sources for `web/contents/data/contra.json`
 * Additional visualizations using D3.js
 * Blog entries
 * Meta-analysis of all data sets

Running Locally
---------------
First make sure you have Node.js installed, then run some setup commands:

```bash
cd web
npm install
npm install -g wintersmith
```

For a live preview at http://localhost:8080:

```bash
wintersmith preview
```

To build the site:

```bash
wintersmith build --clean
```

Wintersmith Modifications
-------------------------
The following extra features are implemented as plugins to Wintersmith:

 * Blog support with Atom.xml feed generation
 * Pass-through JSON data files in the `contents/data` directory
 * Exposing JSON data files to the page renderer
 * i18n support via a preprocessor template tag `{% trans %}some string{% endtrans %}`
 * Generation of translated HTML files based on available languages and `translate: true` metadata
 * Nunjucks templates with Markdown content that can contain Nunjucks tags
 * A generator to create individual contradiction pages
 * Various utilities (book links, getting Bible verses, etc)

License
-------
This creative work is licensed under a Creative Commons Share-Alike Attribution Unported 3.0 license, and relevant source code in the `scripts` and `web` directories are licensed under an MIT-style license. All contributions will be licensed in a similar fashion.
